previously on Delos we do some more
underwater exploring we have one final
sail with Greg and Cheyenne and we say a
sad goodbye to Camilla it was 3 a.m. and
we had just been woken up by an
incredibly loud noise we ran out on deck
to find someone attempting to steal our
date
hey guys
[Music]
we've come home early that night and did
as we always do
lift Maggie a few meters out of the
water turn out the lights and crawl her
to bed unfortunately a local from the
village thought it would be a good idea
to paddle out and see if he could get
his hands on outboard motor once he
realized the motor alone would sink his
little canoe he decided to stand up and
cut through the hired that was holding
all 150 kilos of Maggie
the ridiculously loud noise of Maggie
falling two meters onto his canoe woke
us up immediately
I turned the deck lights on and ran
outside with a flashlight to find a man
standing in Maggie attempting to paddle
her away half naked and half asleep my
first reaction was TL hey you mother was
scared of enough
and disappear into the dark waters
surrounding us Brian appeared with a
machete also yelling and screaming like
a crazy man
we immediately sprung into action
jumping into Maggie just before she'd
ripped it away
we retighten the outboard motor
and the chase there was no way we're
letting this acid get away without
trying to capture his face on camera
this dude was an incredible diver going
back and forth under the keel Adela's at
least six or seven times
he's right here so scary though
our plan was the scarab scare the
out of him actually and hopefully get
him in the dinghy and take him to the
police station
they're gonna get he's a piss
but you don't I don't know like I mean
so the boy is getting now
he doesn't want to give in the bow in
the bug though
jacket face
[Music]
okay ELISA alia Fowler police leper guys
Brian do you want to call somebody or
should we well I mean he's never gonna
hang himself after a while we figured it
would be a good idea to call some of our
local friends get some advice on what to
do after all we were in Madagascar and
wanted to play by the local rules yeah I
think he is swam to the other boat being
I mean it's really dark tonight it's no
more like yeah he might be like hanging
on to something and all like just
drifting right if he is like drifts down
it's real hard to see him so I think I'm
gonna try to call somebody to figure out
like what did you
yeah yep you're in this crazy noises and
I thought the thought of the thing he
was full of water because it was like
banging and making weird noise and I
just got this feeling really bad feeling
so I flipped the lights on deck and came
out with a flashlight and somebody had
cut the high urge for the dinghy really
and was trying to steal the
outboard in a sinking canoe
I caught the B gonna do absolutely
didn't think about it at all and his
canoe is totally underwater in it and
it's gone and he's trying to steal our
massive outward trying to swim to
another boat to lose us
why do people do like this though
like what I don't know it just makes me
really sad like a beautiful place like
this and then can you speak completely
destroyed annoy by people that think
that it's okay to steal from other
people which is really
this makes me sad
the Martin dive flight I think we I
think we lost him
in the dark and he's swimming between
the boats and you couldn't get him on
board he kept grabbing him in his shirt
kept ripping apart but we found the
canoe and he probably stole it so if we
collect the canoe and hopefully we have
his face
maybe track him down
- the guys have his gun off now and
there's a lot of whistling going on and
I think quite a few other boats are now
awake so I feel like it's something
going on at land so maybe he got into
land
I miss happy other people are awake
because then at least other people can
help but like locals can be more I don't
know I don't like when it's just the
guys because you never know even I mean
what do you even do with somebody if we
would have caught him like I guess you
all different feelings about it but for
me it's like I don't know like if you
want to get involved with the police in
that way in here
I mean Madagascar is amazing but I don't
think you want to get involved with the
police here unfortunately it means
you're not having a cup of tea
cuz I need to calm down have you ever
been robbed before Shannon um for my
locker in high school not like this
yeah definitely definitely little
sketchy and it's different bringing here
in the country like it's not as sweet I
mean you can call the police
nine-one-one boom somebody in ten
minutes you know it's like different you
have to deal with it yourself you have
to take action that you don't need to in
another country yeah yeah just trying to
stay calm where it's like you said like
back home it's like you call someone
else to come and help you or here it's
like there's five of us and we off to
like help each other and then
look out for all of these people's boats
and make sure that everybody is like
aware of what's going on yeah so it's
good that you got a shot of his face
because now at least there's a name to
what's been going on yeah
and it looks like there's a spotlight
search from is that a boat do you see
that is that the boys think every once
in a while see that yeah that's probably
dumb meanwhile we were scouring through
the jungle with about ten other locals
after a few hours of searching the Sun
started to rise and we called it off the
thief had escaped into the darkness
I think they saw him climbing the rocks
here the torches started dying I think
he was in his canoe trying to take the
outboard off and that wasn't working so
then just started cutting the lines nose
was a loud noise that sounded like the
echo is pulling every time you cut a
line like he's like and then he had it I
mean it's gone yeah all the lines and
the bow line yeah it was floating right
next to the boat when me and Brady came
out I just stepped into it
another another 1015 seconds and it
would have been drifting that way I mean
I had pieces of shirt kept ripping then
you'd grab his arm and he's a little
slippery
you gotta yeah we found this canal I'm
happy you guys didn't get hurt or
witnessed any brutality yeah I was on
the way back and I started seeing there
was like there was puppy ten people
involved yeah looking for him and like
on the way back you pass the people that
were on the trail if he ran out and they
all had knives and rocks they're like
well maybe they'll hit him a few times
and then grab him and take him to the
police or maybe their brain will just
flip and then he's dead I don't think
the kid deserves to die you know
that's what we were saying to get this
scared out of him like he did and
he deserves to get caught it just sucks
cuz now they're not gonna sleep well and
every little noise is gonna wake us up
that's the worst part about it is it's
been out for months for me to be able to
sleep again you know yeah so we have
some boys here that think that they know
who the canoe belongs to and they want
to take it I bet I don't think this can
good French lady definitely speak
English and my friendship but it sounds
like they know the owner of the boat
pretty slim right
I don't think it would be his he look
quite young
I don't know generally the people that
own the canoes that are like rocker
fishermen they're there they're not bad
people you know
like to see and covers respect for each
other
could be but it could be his uncle's or
it could be somebody that knows that
- you got to have picture of yes on your
phone yes you can show me the face
yes yeah yeah okay
there are you in the front again gets
carrying on the dry land one he wanted
guys know yeah one guy
[Music]
mr. Knightley Susan is a foreign
language
basically the governor's also
they're saying it is black yes yes still
joke but amazing photo Hardy's a minion
takuma cuckoos we may be young young to
twenty maybe you don't know or you
recognize them but yes we know he's only
nominee because you could see the book
is Quran or a lunatic
you see not simply copy
my face
I stole the idea so we were apparently
80% sure who the thief was by this point
over the past year things had gone
missing from a few other yachts in fact
our friends had their laptop stolen not
long before this incident
[Music]
the system here in Madagascar is a bit
different than most places matters like
this would normally be taken care of by
the village itself
they call it village justice and it
actually works really well for crime
prevention if you're caught doing
something wrong you're ashamed and
possibly beaten if the offense is really
bad and you're directly affecting the
livelihood of the other villagers and
there's a chance you will be killed
there's no room for dishonesty among the
culture here but we were foreigners and
the last thing we wanted was to get
mixed up in village justice so we called
the police
[Music]
so Bruce Bruce called the local agent
armory the local police department and
it's this friend that is the police
officer there so they don't feel the
need to come down here
this story Bruce said that will make a
report print the pictures and then we'll
come and we'll give it to Bruce and
he'll translated in Thai like I see and
then he'll go and you'll take it to the
police station later today yeah no he
said he said this is the best plan or
else it's he said it's just like you
just leave it and use okay well let's
just be lazy about it nice enemy we're
about to go in and give our official
statement wherever that is briefs and I
printed out some pictures of our it
totally looks like a wanted poster
doesn't does and then Brian put this
little thing together just in case the
police have a computer with the USB
the thief of Madagascar
we weren't the first people to have
problems around here everyone from the
local village was pretty sure they knew
who was causing all the trouble
the only problem was no one could ever
prove it everyone wanted to come and
have a look at the thief in action so
Bruce is just just finished translating
every big tamale I see
and even wrote on behalf of the marina
to how important the matter is because
it's not normal around here and it reads
tourism and it ruins sailors coming it's
a beautiful place and if one person can
ruin it nobody will come here anymore
and they understand that here for
tourism you know so all the local
fishermen around here and everybody that
works here and everybody in the closest
village is very very against this sort
of thing I think go to the police
station just I mean they won't let us
film in them yeah and at least they
should anyways so I'll just go and turn
this stuff in and see what they say
sounds good know the story so the beasts
this took me through the police
department so I was able to be hey any
out of hard drive so I used an applet
and transmit the video and they loved it
meandering around watching the video and
then they said you need to go see the
local security force there's not enough
police do anything about it but there's
like a private security force for
security guy three three two now I go
with this man to fight him if you really
are
[Music]
that's really bad for our school here
for the marina for the future of the
Maya is very very bad we need to make
some example a little tell us that the
windows tablets game changes in any
crown color video before this little
thing and then the guys a hard Japanese
like hey
okay so they said today the
sounds like it sounds like they got on
my feet
and he's like they're gonna meet the
local police station disappear if we
want to go and make sure it's him
let's go up there never never never get
closer like it knows you that's what the
guy was telling me it's like we never
get a reason we never know who it is
we never they wake up and they're shit's
gone maybe they see somebody swimming
away but they never absolutely don't
know
like an ox and then things got even more
bizarre
we met Bruce on the side of the road a
few guys who he assumed to be the
private security force piled into the
back of the taxi with us it turns out
one of those dudes was the thief what's
up Bruce yeah how are you yes the man is
just here so yeah that's the one last
night
yeah yep the same dude we were chasing
the dinghy and swinging paddles out last
night was sitting right next to Greg and
Brian in the back of the taxi belief and
for sandy sandy
yeah me Monica done with as soon as I
saw him in the light yeah and buku
bottle taking okay
juicy passage the possible
suppose if possible on oh man well
Madagascar justice actually works it was
us it was civilized justice so for
supplies nobody mean he doesn't up
nobody got in the taxi with him with
surprise Ford that was a little awkward
you're like dude I was trying to like I
was smiling face in last night and catch
you in the jungle and now you're and now
we're paying for a taxi ride to take you
to the agenda yeah okay very weird
situation
I'm glad the girls didn't come would've
been like sitting in your lap with him
next to him I think there's a
traumatized yeah yeah except he says it
was me
okay he said it was in last night
confession because he don't want to
because the gentleman didn't force him
before him again and again and he accept
finally you know and they know the
seeker feels in his face in a fight yeah
but let's go okay let's go down we did
good today yeah the thief ended up
spending about two months in the local
jail after learning more about him it
turned out he was a young father without
a job and was trying to make ends meet
and provide for his family this is in no
way an excuse but his story is pretty
universal worldwide just like in every
other city in the world
if you leave things that value around or
leave your house or car unlocked there's
bound to be an opportunistic thief
looking to take advantage of the
situation the friendliness and honesty
of the locals here reminded us that
nosey be Madagascar is just like
everywhere else in the world
99% friendly honest and safe
unfortunately all it takes is one
incident for word to spread and people
to have a preconceived notion about a
place we have never found Madagascar to
be dangerous and will not let this
one-off experience change our perception
of this paradise we love so much so it
is our lost in
how do you guys feel about inviting a
bunch of strangers on your boat oh yeah
we work we work in good spirits before
yeah I feel like you guys thank you guys
for being such a good crew
[Music]
it's 6:30 in the morning I just hope
that they fly out today and I don't know
if I'm ready to fly there's been quite a
lot of commotion the past day and we had
somebody try and steal Maggie has kind
of pretty shaken up by it at first just
to be woken up by somebody else on the
boat then you have warnings like this
that are so calm and there's such a
beautiful sunrise and there's already
fishermen waving and so many happy
people that it's like you just know it's
gonna be okay I just want to say thank
you guys and I'm gonna miss you all a
lot but no tears because adventures will
happen yet everything's packed thank you
so much for such a pleasure to meet you
guys
all right it sounds good
[Music]
you guys were awesome group recruit
legends night
it was a wicked awesome trip wicked
don't it was
just like that it was only three left
[Music]
next up on Delos we celebrate Casas
birthday and style
a beautiful day filled with diving
exploring and watching a solar eclipse
[Music]
everybody got the reason everybody got
the rate we just catching their release
in what beats a pod bladder
those right Ryu plan